put up a hard fight for the faith.
Now, those are the words of Jude, the half-brother of Jesus,
and it's important to consider them in their context.
So let's do that.
Please turn to Jude, verse 3,
and then even Bibles open because we're going to consider another verse in Jude.
And this will help us to get the point that Jude was making.
Jude, verse 3, he says, beloved ones.
Although I was making every effort to write you about the salvation we hold in common,
I found it necessary to write you to urge you to put up a hard fight for the faith.
Now, Jude himself had been putting up a hard fight for the faith.
Consider this, just three years earlier,
his own flesh-late brother James was stone to death at the order of high priest Ananias.
That was an open attack on God's people,
and it must have been very painful to Jude and to others.
And here's something interesting.
Jude is not warning his brothers about high priest Ananias or about persecution.
He has something else in mind, a different type of attack,
and this is a sneaky one. Let's look at verse 4,
and we'll see why he wrote his letter.
Notice the very first words.
My reason is, so this is what I have in mind when I'm writing you brothers.
My reason is that certain men have slipped in among you
who were long ago appointed to this judgment by the Scriptures.
So Jude is talking about false brothers
who are presenting a real danger to the congregations in some ways,
a greater danger than outright persecution.
And did you notice what Jude said about those false brothers?
They had slipped in. They were sneaky.
That was true back then, and it's true today, as we'll see.
And brothers, this is a very serious matter that we're considering today.
Think of this.
Was the Christian congregation brought down by persecution in the second and third centuries?
It wasn't. It was brought down by false brothers, apostate teachings.
And so the devil can use an outright attack.
He can use persecution to try to better the structure of the Christian congregation,
but sometimes he uses rot from within.
A subtle means to attack us.
But whatever method he uses, we have to fight.
Our faith is involved, and our faith is worth fighting for.
It's a gift from Jehovah.
We have to hold onto it. It's a product of his Holy Spirit,
so we have to put up a hard fight for our faith.
So in this talk, we're not going to discuss persecution.
We're going to discuss two of the subtle means Satan uses to weaken our faith.
Apostasy and negative reports about Jehovah's Witnesses in the media.
So first, let's talk about apostasy.
And we'll call it spiritual poison.
Now think about poison.
What's the best way to avoid being poisoned?
Well, we have to recognize poison when we see it, and then avoid it.
And the same principle applies to teachings that could destroy our faith.
And that's not always easy.
Now, not many of our brothers and sisters would deliberately get involved with apostates,
but it could happen without realizing it.
We receive letters at times from brothers and sisters who were troubled by something they saw on a webpage.
An accusation, a rumor about the society or about the organization,
and the problem is they had no idea that apostates were behind it.
It's tricky because the apostates don't advertise you are now on an apostate webpage.
They often pose as sincere witnesses who just have questions or concerns.
And some who aren't really apostates can cause just as much trouble as the apostates do
by their negative talk and criticism.
Brothers, we need to be on the alert.
This is serious.
Suppose that out of curiosity, you get into a discussion forum with individuals who claim to meet your home as witnesses.
Now, maybe they are, maybe they are, you don't know, you've never met them.
And someone starts asking questions.
What did you think of last month's broadcast? Did you really find it encouraging?
Or do you think the brothers who write watched our articles are living in the real world?
I wonder if they realize just how hard it is out here.
And then a few others join in with their own negative comments.
Now, you don't know whether these individuals are apostates or just brothers and sisters who were in serious spiritual trouble.
But does it matter? How does it make you feel?
When you leave the forum, do you feel upbuilt?
Determined to expand your ministry?
More convinced than ever that Jehovah has an organization that you love and that you're delighted to be a part of you feel honored to be a part of that organization.
Or does the experience leave you sad?
Uneasy, uncomfortable.
Now, someone might say, I need to get involved in that forum so I can help those people.
They shouldn't be together.
Even if they aren't apostates, they're not good for one another.
Staying in that forum to help someone is like holding his hand while he drinks poison and then having some yourself so he doesn't have to drink alone.
We need to follow the advice recorded at Romans 16 and verse 17.
Now, think of this imaginary forum that we just described in the light of Romans 16 and verse 17.
Remember, there's all kinds of negative top flying around in this forum.
You don't know who's behind it.
And here's what it says in Romans 16 verse 17.
Now, I urge you, brothers, to keep your eye on those who create divisions and causes for stumbling, contrary to the teaching that you have learned and avoid them.
Now, think about that forum.
Does it create divisions?
Yes.
Is it a cause for stumbling?
Could be.
Is it contrary to what we have learned?
Do we even have to answer that question?
Now, whether it's intended or not, the effect will be to weaken our faith.
So what do we do?
What does Paul tell us to do here at the end of verse 17?
He says, avoid them.
No, I'd like to say a kind word to some who may be involved in discussion forums.
You may like to use this medium to blow off steam, so to speak.
Maybe there are little things in the congregation that are happening that you wonder about or decisions the elders have made that you wonder about.
And so you get involved in the forum and you blow off steam and after that you feel better.
But what about others in the forum?
How do they feel?
Wouldn't you feel awful if negative comments you made were responsible for someone leaving the truth?
I know you wouldn't want that to happen, so please, please be careful about what you say.
Now, another person might say, well, I can see where those warnings about apostates apply to so-and-so.
He's weak, but don't worry about me.
I'm spiritually strong. I can handle it.
That's like a weightlifter, thinking that he can drink a vile of poison and it won't hurt him because he's so big and strong.
We are not so strong, so spiritual, so intelligent, that we cannot be affected by the poison of apostate ideas.
Now, when might we feel pressured to read something that the apostates have written?
Consider this scenario.
The unbelieving husband of your Bible student sends his wife a link to an apostate web page and says,
here, you better look at this and see what you're getting into.
While your student is concerned, she wants you to take a look and tell her what you think.
Well, that's not an option.
Paul says, avoid them.
That doesn't mean reading a apostate literature or searching social media to see what they're saying about us.
So what do you say to your student?
You might say something like this.
I can imagine that this is very upsetting for you.
And you certainly do need to know what you're getting into.
I have a suggestion. We have nothing to hide.
When you're at the meetings, listen carefully to what the brothers are saying.
Watch how we interact with one another.
That note of how the organization is financed.
Get to know the elders, their wives.
Introduce yourself to the circuit overseer and his wife when they come.
Visit world headquarters of the branch.
I'll come with you. I'll help you.
And I want you to get really acquainted with the organization.
And if you do, I'm sure you'll soon realize that what the people are saying about us isn't true.
Well, maybe you can think of a better answer, but you get the idea.
Just a few drops of poison in a drink are enough to cause serious harm.
At a post, it's often mixed a few truths with lies.
I remember Ella Fass, one of Job's false comforters.
Some of what he said was true.
Let's turn to Job chapter 5 and verse 13.
Job chapter 5, I'll give you a moment, and verse 13.
See if what I read sounds familiar.
He catches the wise in their own cunning, so that the plans of the shrewd are thwarted.
He catches the wise in their own coming, cunning.
Does that sound familiar?
Oh, yes.
The Apostle Paul said the very same thing at first French in 319.
In fact, in the marginal reference that we see in the little A in the middle there, first Corinthians 319,
Paul may even have been quoting Ella Fass.
So, that was a truth.
But how did Jehovah feel about Ella Fass' argument overall?
Let's turn to Job 42 for 7, and see how Jehovah felt about it.
Job 42 and verse 7.
After Jehovah had spoken these words to Job, Jehovah said to Ella Fass the Timonite,
My anger burns against you and your true companions, for you have not spoken the truth about me as my servant Job has.
A few grains of truth were mixed in with falsehoods, and at least some of what Ella Fass said was inspired by the demons.
How do we know that?
He had met in it, known as Job 4, verses 15 through 17.
I'll give you a moment. This is interesting.
Job 4, 15 to 17.
Ella Fass says, A spirit passed over my face.
The hair of my flesh bristled. It then stood still.
But I did not recognize its appearance. Let's stop there for a second.
I did not recognize its appearance, so he didn't know whom he was talking to,
just like someone in a discussion forum may not know whom he is talking to.
Let's continue. He says, A form was in front of my eyes. There was a calm.
And then I heard a voice, kind of mortal man be more righteous than God, kind of man be cleaner than his own maker.
Does it surprise you that a demon will get involved in the debate between Job and the false comforters?
It shouldn't. This was no small debate. He was a big issue.
Satan had challenged Jehovah in the presence of all the angels that no man would keep his integrity under test.
That demon was using Ella Fass to demoralize Job and weaken his faith.
This was something that Job had to fight for and Job fought back.
Apostates are more active in some places than they are in others.
So if there's a lot of apostate activity in your area, people in the territory may be listening and they may challenge you when you meet them in the ministry.
So how should you handle it?
Don't try to argue with the apostates. Don't read their comments.
Ask the elders or other experienced publishers for suggestions on how to answer the householders.
Well, how poisonous are apostate teachings?
Let's find out as we watch the following video.
When I was in my 40s, I was divorced. I had three younger kids at home.
I was working three jobs and I had drifted away from the congregation.
I had an acquaintance who was telling me that I was an occult and that I needed to look at some information that he had.
When I was about 30 years old, a fellow employee saw that I was one of Job's witnesses and was trying to access JW.org.
He told me about someone he knew in another country who could prove to me that Job's witnesses didn't have the truth.
That made me curious. And little by little, I was persuaded to look at apostate material.
So I was born and raised in the truth, chose to dedicate myself to Jehovah at the age of 16.
But I began to associate with people who had either formerly been associated with the truth or were very loosely associated with Jehovah in his organization.
And that's really where the apostasy began to take root.
As I was reading this literature, I saw through it to an extent. But when you're drifting away, you're looking for a reason not to believe.
I began to feed my mind with different philosophies, different ideas, even studied different religions.
And I told myself that I was doing that academically, but it started to influence the way that I thought and felt about things.
Eventually, the elders reached out to me. I was very combative with those brothers.
I even made the accusation that Noah's Ark was a fairy tale, that that was part of mythology.
Those apostate doubts that I was reading kept going deeper and deeper into my heart.
I stopped reading the publications. I stopped going to the meetings. And as a result, my spiritual routine was dead.
So I thought I'd try to find truth elsewhere. And I looked for something out there that was in accord with what I knew the Bible taught. But I couldn't find anything.
Well, one Sunday morning, I rode by the Kingdom Hall, and I said to myself, oh, they're all in there waiting for Armageddon.
Immediately, when I thought that thought, I said to myself, well, at least they feel good about themselves. How do you feel?
And the answer was, I felt terrible.
Eventually, skillful use of the scriptures and just reasoning with me, the elders got me to realize that I had been carried off, or that I had been taken captive by human philosophy, by the deceptions and this empty reasoning of men.
I actually said a prayer. I supplicated Jehovah, that he would really show me the way to the truth. And he took away this feeling of emptiness, spiritually speaking.
I realized that relationship with Jehovah, that's our most precious possession. I had to get back.
I started to study the Bible with sincerity. I wanted it to affect my mind and my heart. And I wanted it to affect change in my behavior.
Now, as I did that, I felt Jehovah blessing those efforts. He began to help me to rebuild that relationship with him.
So I began to use Jehovah's name. Speaking about Jehovah became a wonderful joy and a great pleasure to me.
And the result was that my ministry was very productive. And it's an amazing joy to be able to help someone come to love Jehovah.
I was just so happy to be back under Jehovah's wings and have that peace of mind.
How loving Jehovah is, he wants to help us. And what better help could we have? He's the best in the universe.
Now, let's consider the second challenge we face. Negative reports about Jehovah's witnesses in the media.
And here's a good principle to follow. Proverbs 14 and verse 15. We'll give you a moment. Proverbs 14 and verse 15.
It says, the naive person believes every word, but the shrewd one ponders each step.
Some people believe everything they read in the newspaper or see on TV.
To you should you consider this. Now you're working from door to door.
And you meet a householder who says, you and Jehovah's witnesses are terrible people.
You let your children die. You don't accept medical treatment.
Well, you asked the householder, do you know any of Jehovah's witnesses personally?
No. Then where did you get the idea that we let our children die? And don't accept medical treatment?
The householder says, I have it on good authority. I read it in the newspaper.
Well, if it's in the newspaper, it must be true, right?
Not necessarily. Remember this. Reporters have a deadline to meet.
And a reporter may not have the time or the inclination to check the facts.
Or the reporter may have written a balance article, but then the editor changes it.
Maybe the editor doesn't like Jehovah's witnesses or he's been misinformed about us.
Now it's bad enough if people in the world believe everything they read in the newspaper.
But brothers, let's not be among them. Let's not be naive.
Let's consider things carefully.
Similarly, sometimes there's a TV program about Jehovah's witnesses.
Now a few of these programs are balanced and fair.
Many, or I dare say most, are not.
And when they're not, you'll often find that the producers started out with a negative view of Jehovah's witnesses
and then they looked for information to support their prejudice.
So whom did they turn to? Apostates and the clergy.
From them, they got suggestions for people to interview.
And we know what those people would say.
At the very last minute, they may ask the brothers for comment just to give an appearance of fairness,
but the program wasn't designed to be fair.
It was designed to be unfair. It was slanted against Jehovah's witnesses.
Now let's be clear.
Some news organizations are very conscientious about their reporting
and they want to present both sides of an issue.
And when Jehovah's witnesses are concerned, they do so at their cost.
If a newspaper publishes anything positive about us, the churches will push back.
Our parishioners are upset. They subscribe to your newspaper
and they don't like reading favorable things about Jehovah's witnesses.
The message, if it ever happens again,
they're going to lose subscribers.
Now this matter of Jehovah's people being the subject of malicious reports isn't new.
Think about the days of Queen Esther.
Wicked Heyman brings a bad report to King of Hazuerus.
The Jews don't obey our laws. They're a danger to society.
Does a Hazuerus check the facts?
Does he demand proof?
No. A Hazuerus is naive.
He allows himself to be taken in by Heyman.
Well, there are a lot of modern day Heymans today
and they use similar tactics.
As a result, some government officials are taken in.
They believe the slanderous accusations of the apostates.
Now if they just take the time to check the facts,
they'd see that they're being lied to, but they don't check the facts.
Now again, it's bad enough, brothers, when government officials are taken in by false reports,
don't you be taken in?
Have you ever heard the expression trial by a media?
It works like this. Someone's charged with a crime.
And the case is widely publicized in the media.
And the media present the case in such a way
that everyone who hears about it thinks the man is guilty.
Of course, to avoid a lawsuit for slander or liable,
these media reports are very carefully worded.
And we need to understand what the wording means.
Here's a good principle to keep in mind.
Job, chapter 12, and verse 11.
It's amazing how many principles we can draw from the book of Job for this talk.
This is Job speaking.
And he says, does not the ear test out words as the tongue tastes food?
Does not the ear test out words?
What does that mean?
Does it mean that if we learn that apostates are going to be featured on a TV program,
we should watch it to see if what they say is true?
No.
It basically means to consider the source of the words.
If they are the words of apostates, why would we believe them?
Now, think of it this way.
You have a model on your shelf that's marked poison.
Do you need to open it up?
Take a swing to see if it really is poison?
Believe what the label says.
Now, for the purpose of this discussion,
let's consider another way we can test out words.
And that is to pay attention to what the words mean.
Remember, we talked about media reports and how these are very often carefully worded to avoid a lawsuit.
So suppose a report indicates that someone has been charged with a crime or that he's being investigated.
All right, you have two words.
Charged and investigated.
It doesn't mean he's guilty.
Or suppose that someone is convicted and put in jail.
Well, that would apply to our young brothers in Korea, wouldn't it?
They were convicted and jailed.
And what was their crime?
They refused to kill someone?
Did they do anything wrong?
Or someone is found guilty by men as Jesus was.
It doesn't mean that he's guilty in the sight of God.
So brothers, we really have to think about these things.
We may read that a person or an organization was sued and then settled out of court.
Does settling out of court mean that they were guilty?
Not necessarily.
Now, in this country and others, court cases are often handled by a jury.
Now, who are on the jury?
Ordinary citizens with no legal training.
But not only that.
These ordinary citizens don't always have access to all the facts.
Because the judge and lawyers decide which facts will be shared with the jury.
So it's unlikely that the whole truth will ever come out in court.
Actually, neither side probably wants the whole truth to come out in court.
Now, sometimes attorneys deliberately withhold information that would be prejudicial to their clients.
And in addition, centuries have prejudices like everyone else,
and some of them just can't set their prejudices aside.
I'll tell you an actual experience.
Some time ago, when lawyer told me about a case he had,
that was a case of medical malpractice by a doctor.
There was a jury.
At that trial, their doctor was clearly shown to be in the room.
But the jury didn't give the patient a penny.
The lawyer was confused, so after the trial, he approached two of the jurors and asked,
if you don't mind, tell me which part of the testimony you didn't believe.
The jurors replied, oh, we didn't get that far.
The doctor was cute, and we didn't want him to have to pay anything.
With deep thinkers like that, no wonder many lawyers tried to settle their cases
rather than bring them to a jury.
But someone will say, no, I don't believe in settling out of court.
I believe in justice and truth.
So that brings up the question, is it wrong to settle a matter before it goes to trial?
Or is it scriptural?
Let's let Jesus answer that question.
Turn to Matthew chapter 5, verses 25 and 26.
Interesting that Jesus should mention this.
With all the important things that Jesus taught.
Matthew chapter 5, verses 25 and 26.
Be quick to settle matters with your legal opponent while you are with him on the way there.
So that somehow the opponent may not turn you over to the judge,
and the judge to the court attendant, and you get thrown into prison.
I say to you for a fact, you will certainly not come out of there
until you have paid over your last small coin.
Now this is interesting.
Think about the mosaic law.
Was there any provision in the mosaic law to throw someone in jail if he couldn't pay a debt?
That wasn't the way.
If he couldn't pay, he'd have to work it off.
Or a family member would have to work it off.
So when Jesus talks about prison and a judge,
he's obviously referring to what a Gentile judge would do.
And he couldn't necessarily expect justice from him.
Why might he rule against our brother?
Well, maybe he got paid under the table or the other party.
Or maybe he was prejudiced against the race or the religion of the other party.
Now notice, Jesus didn't say that the man should settle only if he was guilty.
So brothers, let's not mean our leave.
Don't believe everything you read.
Just because an article is called a news report doesn't make it true.
And an editorial that someone's opinion, that someone may be wrong.
And TV producers may have their own agenda, prejudice, and viewpoint.
So what do we say in revision and conclusion?
Our faith is under attack.
And we have to fight.
And Jehovah gives us what we need to fight with.
One of the things he gives us, good associations.
Satan will try to lure us away from good associations.
He'll try to weaken our faith by getting us involved in bad association without our knowing.
But Jehovah provides good association in the congregation.
These are people we know. These are people we love.
These are people who have our best interests at heart.
Keep in mind the principle we find at Proverbs 13 and verse 20.
The one walking with the wise will become wise.
But the one who has dealings with the stupid will fare badly.
You know the members of your congregation.
You know that they are wise.
You know that they have your best interests at heart.
But if you get involved in a forum, you might not know whether you're walking with wise persons or not.
At least not at first.
So be careful.
If the conversation turns negative, get out.
Satan is behind the twisted teachings of apostates.
He's the father of the lie.
And those who lie are doing exactly what their father does.
The apostates have nothing to offer us, brothers.
All they have to offer is hate. All they have is to offer is criticism and negative talk.
But oh, how upbuilt we feel when we're with those who love Jehovah.
So Jehovah provides us with good, wholesome associations.
He also provides us with his word of truth.
And an accurate knowledge of the truth is the best defense against apostasy.
Read the Bible every day and meditate on it.
Pay attention to the words.
Pay attention to what they mean.
Be like the Bereans, referred to at Acts chapter 17.
And verses 10 and 11.
Let's read that.
Acts chapter 17, verses 10 and 11.
Immediately by night, the brothers sent both Paul and Silas to Berea.
On arriving, they went into the synagogue of the Jews.
Now, these were more noble-minded than those in Thessalonica.
For they accepted the word with the greatest eagerness of mind.
Carefully examining the scriptures daily.
To see whether these things were so.
Now, Paul compares the Bereans with the Thessalonians.
They didn't have YouTube in those days.
But at one point, the Thessalonians apparently heard a rumor that the day of Jehovah had arrived.
Who circulated the rumor?
An apostate?
Maybe.
But maybe it was just someone who had heard the rumor and passed it on without checking it out.
Have you ever done that?
Passed on a report without checking the facts?
I think all of us have to admit that we've been guilty of that at one time or another.
But now, how did the Thessalonians react?
They were alarmed.
They were quickly shaken from their reason.
We mustn't let that happen to us.
When you hear something, check it out.
Don't just circulate it.
Don't just believe it.
Check it out.
Colossians 2, 6 and 7.
The last scripture we'll read during this talk.
Here Paul explains how we can avoid being quickly shaken from our reason.
Let's read this final scripture.
Colossians chapter 2, verses 6 and 7.
Therefore, just as you have accepted Christ Jesus the Lord,
go on walking in union with Him.
You do that and you'll be walking with a wise one, certainly.
Being rooted and built up in Him and then notices
and being stabilized in the faith just as you were taught.
If we're stabilized in the faith,
we won't be quickly shaken by unfounded accusations by apostates or the media.
False rumors are often spread during wartime.
Brothers, this is war.
We need to put up a hard fight for the faith
as if our life depended on it.
Because it does.